WIP: mid cycle 1.29 blog [placeholder] (#43439)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2023-11-16-mid-cycle-1.29.md

* Generally available (GA) or stable API versions may be marked as deprecated, but must not be removed within a major version of Kubernetes.
* Beta or pre-release API versions must be supported for 3 releases after deprecation.
* Alpha or experimental API versions may be removed in any release without prior deprecation notice.

Whether an API is removed as a result of a feature graduating from beta to stable or because that API simply did not succeed, all removals comply with this deprecation policy. Whenever an API is removed, migration options are communicated in the documentation.

## A note about the k8s.gcr.io redirect to registry.k8s.io

To host its container images, the Kubernetes project uses a community-owned image registry called registry.k8s.io. Starting last March traffic to the old k8s.gcr.io registry began being redirected to registry.k8s.io. The deprecated k8s.gcr.io registry will eventually be phased out. For more details on this change or to see if you are impacted, please read [k8s.gcr.io Redirect to registry.k8s.io - What You Need to Know](/blog/2023/03/10/image-registry-redirect/). 

## A note about the Kubernetes community-owned package repositories

> Kubernetes project recently [introduced](/blog/2023/08/15/pkgs-k8s-io-introduction/) `pkgs.k8s.io`, community-owned software repositories for Debian and RPM packages. The community-owned repositories replace the legacy Google-owned repositories (`apt.kubernetes.io` and `yum.kubernetes.io`). The legacy repositories were deprecated and froze as of September 13, 2023. For more information on this change or to see if you are impacted, please read the [deprecation announcement](/blog/2023/08/31/legacy-package-repository-deprecation/).

Reviewer: (nit)
```suggestion
Earlier in 2023, the Kubernetes project [introduced](/blog/2023/08/15/pkgs-k8s-io-introduction/) `pkgs.k8s.io`, community-owned software repositories for Debian and RPM packages. The community-owned repositories replaced the legacy Google-owned repositories (`apt.kubernetes.io` and `yum.kubernetes.io`).
On September 13, 2023, those legacy repositories were formally deprecated and their contents frozen.

For more information on this change or to see if you are impacted, please read the [deprecation announcement](/blog/2023/08/31/legacy-package-repository-deprecation/).
```

## Deprecations and removals for Kubernetes v1.29

See the official list of [API removals](/docs/reference/using-api/deprecation-guide/#v1-29) for a full list of planned deprecations for Kubernetes v1.29.

> ### Removal of in-tree integrations with cloud providers ([KEP-2395](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/2395))

Reviewer: (nit that I just thought of)

```suggestion
### Removal of in-tree integrations with cloud providers ([KEP-2395](https://kep.k8s.io/2395))
```

---
layout: blog
title: 'Kubernetes Removals, Deprecations, and Major Changes in Kubernetes 1.29'
date: 2023-11-16
slug: kubernetes-1-29-upcoming-changes
---

**Authors:** Carol Valencia, Kristin Martin, Abigail McCarthy, James Quigley, Hosam Kamel

> As with every release, Kubernetes v1.29 will introduce some feature deprecations and removals. Our continued ability to produce high-quality releases is a testament to our robust development cycle and healthy community. The following list are of some of the deprecations and removals coming in the Kubernetes 1.29 release. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As with every release, Kubernetes v1.29 will introduce feature deprecations and removals. Our continued ability to produce high-quality releases is a testament to our robust development cycle and healthy community. The following are some of the deprecations and removals coming in the Kubernetes 1.29 release. 
```

Reviewer: Actually, ”every release” doesn't introduce deprecations. We could reword (I'm also fine if that happens post-merge).

Introduced in alpha in Kubernetes v1.28, native sidecare containers will be [beta](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/753) in Kubernetes v1.29. In addition to fixing known issues, improvements include implementing proper termination ordering and allowing sidecar containers to restart during the shutdown of the Pod.

### Want to know more?

Deprecations are announced in the Kubernetes release notes. You can see the announcements of pending deprecations in the release notes for:

* [Kubernetes v1.25](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.25.md#deprecation)
* [Kubernetes v1.26](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.26.md#deprecation)
* [Kubernetes v1.27](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.27.md#deprecation)
* [Kubernetes v1.28](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.28.md#deprecation)

We will formally announce the deprecations that come with [Kubernetes v1.29](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.29.md#deprecation) as part of the CHANGELOG for that release.

> For information on the deprecation and removal process, check out the official Kubernetes [deprecation policy](/docs/reference/using-api/deprecation-policy/#deprecating-parts-of-the-api) document.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For information on the deprecation and removal process, refer to the official Kubernetes [deprecation policy](/docs/reference/using-api/deprecation-policy/#deprecating-parts-of-the-api) document.
```

---
layout: blog
title: 'Kubernetes Removals, Deprecations, and Major Changes in Kubernetes 1.29'
date: 2023-11-16

> slug: kubernetes-1-29-release-announcement

Reviewer: ```suggestion
slug: kubernetes-1-29-upcoming-changes
```

---

**Authors:** Carol Valencia, Kristin Martin, Abigail McCarthy, James Quigley, Hosam Kamel

> # Kubernetes Removals, Deprecations, and Major Changes in Kubernetes 1.29

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Kubernetes Removals, Deprecations, and Major Changes in Kubernetes 1.29
```

* Generally available (GA) or stable API versions may be marked as deprecated, but must not be removed within a major version of Kubernetes.
* Beta or pre-release API versions must be supported for 3 releases after deprecation.
* Alpha or experimental API versions may be removed in any release without prior deprecation notice.

Whether an API is removed as a result of a feature graduating from beta to stable or because that API simply did not succeed, all removals comply with this deprecation policy. Whenever an API is removed, migration options are communicated in the documentation.

## A note about the k8s.gcr.io redirect to registry.k8s.io

> To host its container images, the Kubernetes project uses a community-owned image registry called registry.k8s.io. Starting last March traffic to the old k8s.gcr.io registry began being redirected to registry.k8s.io. The deprecated k8s.gcr.io registry will eventually be phased out. For more details on this change or to see if you are impacted, please read [k8s.gcr.io Redirect to registry.k8s.io - What You Need to Know](/blog/2023/03/10/image-registry-redirect/). 

Reviewer: This is still missing a mention of https://kubernetes.io/blog/2023/08/15/pkgs-k8s-io-introduction/ and the related [freeze](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2023/08/31/legacy-package-repository-deprecation/) of the legacy repository.

I really, strongly recommend mentioning those details.

Reviewer: See https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/43439#discussion_r1378969492

> ## Deprecations and Removals for Kubernetes v1.29

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Deprecations and removals for Kubernetes v1.29
```

> Follow-up the official list of [API removals](/docs/reference/using-api/deprecation-guide/#v1-29) planned for Kubernetes v1.29.

Reviewer: This looks like a note, not text ready for publication.

> ### Removal of in-tree integrations with cloud providers [KEP-2395](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/2395)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Removal of in-tree integrations with cloud providers ([KEP-2395](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/2395))
```

Enabling external cloud controller managers means you must run a suitable cloud controller manager within your cluster's control plane; it also requires setting the command line argument `--cloud-provider=external` for the kubelet (on every relevant node), and across the control plane (kube-apiserver and kube-controller-manager).

For more information about how to enable and run external cloud controller managers, read [Cloud Controller Manager Administration](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/running-cloud-controller/) and [Migrate Replicated Control Plane To Use Cloud Controller Manager](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/controller-manager-leader-migration/).

For general information about cloud controller managers, please see
[Cloud Controller Manager](/docs/concepts/architecture/cloud-controller/) in the Kubernetes documentation.

For general information about cloud controller managers, please see the Kubernetes document
[Cloud Controller Manager](/docs/concepts/architecture/cloud-controller/).

> ### Removal of `v1beta2` flow control API group

Reviewer: (nit)
```suggestion
### Removal of the `v1beta2` flow control API group
```

The _flowcontrol.apiserver.k8s.io/v1beta2_ API version of FlowSchema and PriorityLevelConfiguration will [no longer be served](/docs/reference/using-api/deprecation-guide/#v1-29) in Kubernetes v1.29. 

To prepare for this, you can edit your existing manifests and rewrite client software to use the `flowcontrol.apiserver.k8s.io/v1beta3` API version, available since v1.26. All existing persisted objects are accessible via the new API. Notable changes in `flowcontrol.apiserver.k8s.io/v1beta3` include
that the PriorityLevelConfiguration `spec.limited.assuredConcurrencyShares` field was renamed to `spec.limited.nominalConcurrencyShares`.
 

> ### Deprecation of `status.nodeInfo.kubeProxyVersion` field for Node

Reviewer: (nit)
```suggestion
### Deprecation of the `status.nodeInfo.kubeProxyVersion` field for Node
```

The `.status.kubeProxyVersion` field for Node objects will be [marked as deprecated](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/4004) in v1.29 in preparation for its removal in a future release. This field is not accurate and is set by kubelet, which does not actually know the kube-proxy version, or even if kube-proxy is running.
    
## Major Changes for Kubernetes v1.29

### Native sidecar containers promoted to beta

> Introduced in alpha in Kubernetes v1.28, native sidecare containers will be [beta](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/753) in Kubernetes v1.29. In addition to fixing known issues, improvements include implementing proper termination ordering and allowing sidecar containers to restart during the shutdown of the Pod.

Reviewer: This seems wrong (see feedback originally posted to https://hackmd.io/@krol/middlecycle-129)

Reviewer 3: This content has been removed, based on your feedback

### Want to know more?

Deprecations are announced in the Kubernetes release notes. You can see the announcements of pending deprecations in the release notes for:

* [Kubernetes v1.25](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.25.md#deprecation)
* [Kubernetes v1.26](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.26.md#deprecation)
* [Kubernetes v1.27](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.27.md#deprecation)

> * [Kubernetes v1.28](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.28.md#deprecation)

Reviewer: This seems wrong (see feedback originally posted to https://hackmd.io/@krol/middlecycle-129), but we could go with it.

Enabling external cloud controller managers means you must run a suitable cloud controller manager within your cluster's control plane; it also requires setting the command line argument `--cloud-provider=external` for the kubelet (on every relevant node), and across the control plane (kube-apiserver and kube-controller-manager).

For more information about how to enable and run external cloud controller managers, read [Cloud Controller Manager Administration](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/running-cloud-controller/) and [Migrate Replicated Control Plane To Use Cloud Controller Manager](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/controller-manager-leader-migration/).

For general information about cloud controller managers, please see
[Cloud Controller Manager](/docs/concepts/architecture/cloud-controller/) in the Kubernetes documentation.

For general information about cloud controller managers, please see the Kubernetes document
[Cloud Controller Manager](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/architecture/cloud-controller/).

### Removal of `v1beta2` flow control API group

> The flowcontrol.apiserver.k8s.io/v1beta2 API version of FlowSchema and PriorityLevelConfiguration will no longer be [served in v1.29](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/using-api/deprecation-guide/#v1-29). 

Reviewer 4: This part of the content does not seem to have been modified as suggested by https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/43439#discussion_r1377983303 ? Is it missing？

Author: Thanks @mengjiao-liu, I resolved in this [commit](https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/43439/commits/eae2925008d8841d559a8222d596cec043d8ffa0)

    
## Major Changes for Kubernetes v1.29

### Native sidecar containers promoted to beta

Introduced in alpha in Kubernetes v1.28, native sidecare containers will be [beta](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/753) in Kubernetes v1.29. In addition to fixing known issues, improvements include implementing proper termination ordering and allowing sidecar containers to restart during the shutdown of the Pod.

## Looking Ahead

The official list of [API removals](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/using-api/deprecation-guide/#v1-29) planned for Kubernetes v1.29 includes:

> * The _flowcontrol.apiserver.k8s.io/v1beta2_ API version of FlowSchema and PriorityLevelConfiguration will [no longer be served](/docs/reference/using-api/deprecation-guide/#v1-29) in Kubernetes v1.29.

Reviewer 4: This line is basically the same as line 47. Is that intentional? It's a little redundant.

Author: Yeah! I will remove it and create an introduction. see this [commit](https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/43439/commits/6013a274a9a3978fbcb8c9214ec8fbd71362c1cb)

## Deprecations and Removals for Kubernetes v1.29

> Follow-up the official list of [API removals](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/using-api/deprecation-guide/#v1-29) planned for Kubernetes v1.29.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Follow-up the official list of [API removals](/docs/reference/using-api/deprecation-guide/#v1-29) planned for Kubernetes v1.29.
```

Reviewer 2: Change to relative link.

Author: @kcmartin  please review this commit I fixed to use relative link, [here](https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/43439/commits/e4bad64f1d9f52be9dc2b06f4415926f49bc80ee)
